# WALK Call, 15 January 2015

## Attendees:
Ian Milligan (Waterloo, Chairing call), Jefferson Bailey (Internet Archive), Courtney Mumma (Internet Archive), Nick Ruest (York University), John Simpson (Compute Canada), Geoff Harder (University of Alberta), Todd Suomela (University of Alberta), Weiwei Shi (University of Alberta), Sonya Betz (University of Alberta), Umar Qasim (University of Alberta).

Regrets: Peter Binkley (University of Alberta).

Notes prepared by Ian. All errors are certainly mine!

## Rough Agenda
1. Question of which partners to approach?
2. Ingesting workflow, including test dataset.
3. Next Steps for Analysis

## Meeting Minutes

### Partners to Approach
- we widely discussed a number of potential partners, including initial links with Alberta, Toronto, SFU, UVic, Library and Archives Canada.
- on the question of whether to **collect a bit from many partners** or **gather content from just a few partners**, given storage constraints, elected for former.
- We will have to winnow down data size, as we currently only have 15TB (will have 35TB by June when CC refresh hits).

**Action item**: University of Alberta will approach Archive-It partners to garner interest, select collections, and begin the MOU process.

### Data Ingestion Process
- we discussed a variety of methods for transferring data, including the Compute Canada-prefered Globus method and the Internet Archive's experience with a client Python library for large data transfer.
- currently unsure where our Compute Canada resources are physically located, although appear to be on the CC IAAS cloud. 
- Internet Archive can make a test dataset, perhaps from Alberta or Waterloo, availablef or us to test the client Python library/Globus and see how it goes (200GB as an initial test).
- Need to work with Compute Canada to get access.
- We also discussed the **MOU/Research Agreements**, leveraging the experience that Jefferson and Courtney have with L3S and other partners.

**Action item**: Ian will get the Cloud setup, create user accounts, install warcbase and Shine to get things ready, basically kick the tires around on the new system. 

**Action item**: Nick will look into the ingestion process and oversee data transfers.

**Action item**: Internet Archive will provide template MOU with partner libraries, as well as template research agreements for individual researchers. We can adapt.

### Next Steps
- The first major step will be the generation of **derivative datasets**: ranging from hyperlink networks, to extracted entities, to plain-text indexes. 
- We had a discussion about whether to create separate indexes for collections:
    + i.e. having the "Canadian Politics" collection at politics.webarchives.ca; or the "Labour" collection at labour.webarchives.ca. OR;
    + faceting for each, enabling separate analysis as well as seeing it all together.
- Using the 'silence is consensus' model, we shortly arrived at the latter as an ideal to shoot for.

**Action item**: Once test dataset is set up, Ian can run some test derivative generations on the datasets.